---
layout: single
title: 248 ACU cadets participate on Ex ANZUK Cadets 2024
author: Sheba Perry
categories: event home
excerpt: For two weeks, five of our very own cadets from 248 ACU went on the trip of a lifetime travelling across Europe.
header:
  teaser: assets/images/2024-08-31-anzuk-cadets-2024/anzuk-cadets-2024-2.jpg
images:
  gate:
    src: assets/images/2024-08-31-anzuk-cadets-2024/anzuk-cadets-2024-1.jpg
    caption: 248 ACU cadets following their march through the Menin Gate, Ypres, Belgium.
  tour:
    src: assets/images/2024-08-31-anzuk-cadets-2024/anzuk-cadets-2024-2.jpg
    caption: 248 ACU cadets with their tour guide, WO2 Pete Turner, a Chelsea Pensioner at the Royal Hospital Chelsea in London.
  dinner:
    src: assets/images/2024-08-31-anzuk-cadets-2024/anzuk-cadets-2024-3.jpg
    caption: 248 ACU Cadets dressed up for their end-of-exercise dining-in night at the Cavalry & Guards Club in London, England.
  tynecot: 
    src: assets/images/2024-08-31-anzuk-cadets-2024/anzuk-cadets-2024-4.jpg
    caption: 248 ACU cadets during their visit to Tyne Cot Cemetery in Zonnebeke, Belgium.
  tank:
    src: assets/images/2024-08-31-anzuk-cadets-2024/anzuk-cadets-2024-5.jpg
    caption: 248 ACU cadets in front of a Challenger 1 (V3A2) tank during their visit to The Tank Museum at Bovington Garrison in Dorset, South West England.
  sandhurst:
    src: assets/images/2024-08-31-anzuk-cadets-2024/anzuk-cadets-2024-6.jpg
    caption: Australian and British Army Cadets in a group photo outside the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst in England.
---

For two weeks of the July school holidays, five of our very own cadets from 248 ACU went on the trip of a lifetime as part of the Australia New Zealand United Kingdom (ANZUK) cadet exchange trip, travelling across Europe visiting historical military sites and memorials, and making many memories along the way. 

Cadet Sergeant Cena Morillo, Cadet Corporal Amelia Moar, Cadet Corporal Oisin Smyth, Cadet Cameron Kennedy and Cadet Alexandra Joewono of 248 ACU attended the trip from 4 July to 20 July 2024, making their way across the UK, Northern France and Belgium alongside 25 Australian Army cadets and 13 British Army cadets.

“Travelling to the other side of the world with Australian Army Cadets was an amazing and unexpected experience that I felt very lucky to participate in.” said Cadet Alexandra Joewono.

“My personal favourite part of the trip was watching the Military Music Show. As a Music HSC student, I found the intricate planning and practice that all of the British Army Officers had to be truly fascinating.

During their time in the UK, cadets made visits to various museums including the National Army Museum, The Tank Museum at Bovington Garrison, and the Museum of Army Flying. On top of this, they were lucky enough to pay visits to multiple important military bases and sites, such as the Royal Hospital Chelsea, the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, HQ Royal Tank Regiment, HQ Army Air Corps, Army Aviation Centre and a day in the field at Longmore Training Camp. Buckingham Palace, Churchill War Rooms, and Windsor Castle were also on the list, and the cadets lined Whitehall as His Majesty King Charles III and Queen Camilla came by in their carriage with the Household Cavalry on their way to the State Opening of Parliament.

{% include post__image.html image=page.images.sandhurst %}

"The trip meant I could grow my patch collection immensely, it was a great way to collect memorabilia from significant military sites and keep hold of the memories.” Said Cadet Corporal Oisin Smyth.

While in Northern France and Belgium, cadets conducted battlefield studies on sites of key First World War battlefields of the Somme, visited In Flanders Fields Museum, held a navigation exercise in Polygon Wood, visited execution cells in Poperinghe as well as Langemark and Tyne Cot Cemetery to pay respects and attended the Menin Gate service in memory of the British and Commonwealth soldiers who were killed in the Ypres Salient of World War I and whose graves are unknown.

“I wouldn’t have traded this experience for anything in the world. Without Army Cadets I would never have had this opportunity so I am very grateful,” said Cadet Lance Corporal Cameron Kennedy. “I highly recommend this to any cadets looking to attend next year's exercise.”

{% include post__image.html image=page.images.tynecot %}

Over the course of the jam-packed international exercise, cadets made many memories and were able to travel alongside international cadets, sharing experiences and comparing drill movements, uniforms and more. It was an amazing opportunity for our cadets to learn about Australian and Commonwealth military history through seeing theatres of the First World War first-hand and viewing artifacts in some of the oldest military museums and service headquarters of Europe. 

Exercise ANZUK Exchange is an annual educational exercise in cooperation with New Zealand and UK cadet programs, and has been running for several years. It provides opportunities for cadets to explore and travel under the supervision and guidance of Army Cadet Staff and visit exclusive military sites throughout Europe and Oceania.

The Australian Army Cadets is a national youth development program that proudly shares the character and values of the Australian Army. It is a partnership between the Australian Army and the community.

{% include post__image.html image=page.images.tour %}

{% include post__image.html image=page.images.gate %}

{% include post__image.html image=page.images.dinner %}

{% include post__image.html image=page.images.tank %}